 
  SOUFFLÉ AU GRAND MARNIER
  (ORANGE LIQUEUR SOUFFLÉ)
Serves 4 people Preparation Time: 10 minutes Cooking Time: 30-40 MINUTES
 Elegant, light and delicious this impressive dessert is truly spectacular.
Note: This recipe is originally from the revised edition of Antonietta Terrigno’s previous
book entitled Italian Cooking, Classic Recipes, printed in May, 2005.


INGREDIENTS
    -
    orange peel and transfer to a large
2 tbsp (30 mL) soft butter
    bowl. Set the bowl into a pan filled with
3 tbsp (45 mL) sugar
    crushed ice or ice cubes and cold water,
5 egg yolks
1/3 cup (75 mL) sugar   and stir the mixture until it is quite cold.
1/4 cup (60 mL) Grand Marnier   Remove it from the ice.
    -
1 tbsp (15 mL) freshly grated orange peel
    unlined copper, beat the egg whites and
7 egg whites
1/4 tsp (1 mL) cream of tartar  the cream of tartar with a clean whisk or
    rotary beater until they form stiff, un-
Confectioner’s (powdered) sugar
    wavering peaks. Using a rubber spatula,
    stir a large spoonful of beaten egg white
INSTRUCTIONS    into the yolk mixture to lighten it.
-
quart (1.5 L) soufflé dish with 2 tbsp.  into the yolk mixture. Spoon the soufflé
(30 mL) of soft butter. Sprinkle in  batter into the buttered, sugared dish,
3 tbsp. (45 mL) of sugar, tipping and  filling it to within 2" (5 cm) of the top.
shaking the dish to spread the sugar  Smooth the top of the soufflé with the
evenly. Then turn the dish over and  spatula. For a decorative effect, make
knock out the excess sugar. Set aside.  a cap on the soufflé by cutting a trench
-
egg yolks with a whisk, rotary or electric edge all around the top.
beater until they are well blended.  -
Slowly add the sugar and continue  shelf of the oven, for 2 minutes, then
beating until the yolks become very  reduce the heat to 400°F (200°C).
thick and pale yellow. Set the pan over  Continue baking for another 20 to 30
barely simmering (not boiling) water  minutes, or until the soufflé has risen
and heat the egg yolks, stirring gently  about 2" (5 cm) above the top of the
and constantly while the mixture  mold and the top is lightly browned.
thickens and becomes almost too  Sprinkle with confectioner’s (powdered)
hot to touch. 


INSTRUCTIONS
 Stir in the Grand Marnier and grated
 In a large mixing bowl, preferably of
 Grease the bottom and sides of a 11/2 - Gently fold the remaining egg whites
 In the top of a double boiler, beat the 
 Bake at 425°F (220°C) on the middle
    sugar and serve at once.
